Red Hat TY Week 2024

Monday 22nd 
We started the day at 10 am, Cathal introduced us to the program and explained to our group what Red Hat does as a company.We did an icebreaker to get to know the names of the people in the room (The other TY students and the college interns) We were each taped a paper with the name of a person (ficticional or real) to our backs and had to ask eachother yes or no questions until we figured out wo we were, I found this a very fun icebreaker and got to know may people's names. Afterwards we were given a tour of the office by Becky, who showed us where our desks were. After that we were given free time to do whatever we wanted until our next workshop, at 2 pm.
All 7 TY Interns decided to play Mario Kart on the nintendo switch, which got us talking to eachother.
After lunch we had our first workshop about Agile with Fortune. He teached us about the concept of agility anad adapting to change and then we did an activity using the Kanban method to plan ahead, track progress and maximise productivity. We divided into 2 groups and built Mr Potato using the method, writing sticky notes with the tasks we had to do, following the criteria our product owner imposed. It was a fun activity and it explained the method very well. After we were done building Mr Potato, we did a Retrospective chart, thinking about what went well and what we could've improved on. When we finished this task we were allowed to go home.

Tuesday 23rd
Today we started the day off at 9:30, it was a much more intense day than Monday as we had 2 workshops. The first one was the Git workshop. We were in the Valentia room this time. The interns teached about the command line and some commands to use on the terminal, we created some folders and files and deleted them, I thought this was very useful. Then we moved on to creating a GitHub account and an SSH code which I found incredibly confusing and didn't quite understand the meaning of the commands. After lunch we had our second workshop of the day, in which we worked with Microbits and MakeyMakey's it was easy to follow the tutorials, but when attempting to make something different I struggled a bit as I'm not a very creative person, regardless I still enjoyed the workshop. We also finished this day early and went home.

Wednesday 24th
Team building day was quite fun, the main activity of the day was building a rollercoaster made out of paper straws, tape and anything else we could think of. We were split into 2 teams and given the whole day to make it. Although the other team won, I think my team's rollescoaster was better as it had a bigger loop. Throughout the day we also had 2 talks, one on AI and how its developed and updated, by Oksana, Alex and Killian, and the other on women in the field and how IT and STEM in general are very men dominated fields. I knew many of the concepts explained in the AI talk but most were new to me and I found it very interesting. 

Thursday 25th
Today we had breakfast at the office at 10 am, there were a few boxes with food and you could go there and grab whatever you wanted. After that we went to the main room where Killian and Alex gave us a talk bout how they got to where they are now, career path wise, it was really interesting to see that there is many different ways to reach a certain position or job, not just the direct and traditional way. After that at 11:30 am James came in to give us a talk about Cloud, what it is, how it originated and the current situation of it, aswell as the differeent top companies. I think this was my favourite talk so far as I found it fascinating and it was all new to me, he also talked on some areas I'm interested in as a future carer path, such as sustainability positions within companies. When the talk was over we had free time to go play a game of pool in the pool room. It was me against Bushra and although I was really close to winning, I lost in the last moment by knocking off the white ball after the black one. We had lunch and folling that we had a Python / coding workshop where we were given code for a pong game and we were able to tweak aspects of it such as the size of the paddle, the colour, the speed... It was quite fun but I found it hard.

Friday 26th
On our last day we started off a bit later, the whole day was dedicated to coding a car with a remote so we could do a race on the tables. We first started by experimenting with microbit again, this time with a motor extension and the radio features, so we basically used two microbits and made them comunicate with eachother, one of them was attached to the car and the other was used as a remote. Me and saoirse made a code so when we pressed different boutons so it would turn left or right. During lunch, in which we were given Domino's pizza we had a competition of Mario Kart in which Evan won everytime. After lunch the interns had drawned out the path for the race and so the 3 teams practiced, but when the race was due to start Alex decided to change the direction of the race to throw us all off which was annoying. We did 3 rounds and calculated the average, sadly me and Saoirse's team was last. After we were done the race Cathal the program director asked us what we liked about the program and what could be improved, as a way to take the feedback and better the future programmes. Before we left we were given a bag full of red hat merch/swag.

I had a great time this week and really enjoyed the program.